All right guys guys in this lecture we're going to jump into an editing program so I can show you what
many of the usual features look like.
I'm going to go into Adobe Premiere and some of you may decide to use this one specifically.
Some of you will but it's a powerful piece of software and it's a great example to show you what most
editing programs are like.
So for the next X amount of minutes we're going to go in Adobe for as if we never use it before and
get oriented with what you need to care about.
There's a lot of sections you don't need to know about.
So we're going to focus on how to get in and get stuff done.
If you guys already know how to use a premiere for the love of God skipped this lecture.
If you're one of the people that complains when you watch a software tutorial in a course because you
think core shouldn't cover software tutorials in that case you can also skip it.
And in general guys you can just go to YouTube and YouTube has some really good tutorials on how to
use premiere.
The difference is going to be that there are going to be much much longer more in depth going to focus
on a lot of things like pro video editors need but not something like what we need anyway.
So here we go.
Let's just jump in.
And this is what it looks like.
OK.
Get used to this because well if you're going to use it to stare at this for hours it's the first thing
you generally want to do is create a new project.
OK.
So when you open a new project and Adobe from your windows in a come up where you can type in a name
and potentially change some of these options.
But generally I would just say just leave them as they are for now.
We don't have to worry about them yet and frankly we don't even know what some of these mean.
Let's just jump right in and when the new project opens up you'll see a whole bunch of windows around
the workspace.
Now we discuss them as we go through this.
If you guys are using a different version from Erlick CSX the S5 or even C-s for it on how you installed
it you might have it it could look slightly different.
Adobe has this funny thing where for some reason every year they decide to move all their features around
in a big circle just to piss people off or make tutorials.
That's the only reason I can think of it they do it with Photoshop all the time.
They just take a feature and then every year they move around somewhere else it's in this tab or this
over here or now it's a shortcut way to get started.
I've got a few sample videos that Premier actually provided so we'll just use those as part of an example
video project.
So the first thing you want to do when you start up a video project is get your video clips into the
project and specifically a section called the media.
Now the easiest way to do this is open your finder on the Mac or explore on your PC and find the files
that you want to put in there and then just click and drag them into the lower left hand section of
Premier.
That's the media then and that will add those clips to your project.
So here we have three video files that we're going to use in this example.
Let's just click one and drag it over the timeline which is over here to the right.
Now the timeline is really the main area where you're going to be doing the editing of your video.
The timeline is separated into video and audio tracks which you can see here labeled with V.
A The one and a want video and audio one.
And when we drag the video clip onto it while it splits the video and the audio from the click apart.
And they put them in the corresponding tracks for you.
The timeline is a timeline.
Right.
So if you look at the left part of the timeline the very far left that's zero seconds and he's moved
right.
That's one second two seconds three seconds all the way up to however long your video is going to be.
So by placing video clips here that's how you can decide what shows at what time in what order and what
sequence.
All right so here on the timeline you to see a vertical blue line at the beginning.
And if you click and drag it around you'll see what's going on at that particular point in the video
clip.
Now that blue line is called the play head and you'll position out where you want to make edits.
And the other cuts on your timeline as unsophisticated as I am will call it the scrubber but I know
that's not technically true but I just like to call it a scrubber scrubbers is a funny word.
You can drag it around and move it with the arrow keys or you can use keyboard shortcuts and premiere's
specifically the keys JKA and Al will allow you to shuttle through the video that's on the timeline.
Now I don't obviously use shortcuts because I have five fingers.
So it kind of makes it hard but for a 10 fingered Friends Well this actually is quite useful.
It'll save you actually an enormous amount of time a lot of time to be doing the same redundant task
over and over and over and over again whereas clicking it right clicking and doing whatever you want
with a mouse just adds seconds every time you do it.
And over the long term I can actually it hours to your life and you and you can try it out yourself
and see how it works.
Now Jay goes reverse and L goes forward and then K will stop.
OK so now that we have a video clip on the timeline let's actually click it and go to the upper left
hand corner and click on effect controls.
This is basically a property window that shows information about what selected here you can see the
size and other information on the video itself and there are places where you can make changes to it
if you want to.
For example if you explore some of the items and the effects control window one of those attributes
in there is called Rotation rotation obviously refers to the video itself and it's whether it's rotated
in degrees you change the rotation it's a 90 degrees.
Well look at our image you'll see a change in the screen on the right.
So now the video is rotated and if you shuttle back and forth of the play head you'll see that the entire
clip is now rotated.
So that's how you make.
But if you wanted to reset that then just go over to where the rotation is and click on a circular arrow
on the right and that will usually reset it to the original value.
OK.
There you go.
Now we're back to non-crazy land.
Now there are plenty of effects that Premier has and if you go up to the top along this horizontal navigation
bar you'll see effects as one of those buttons you click it a new window will appear on the right.
Now one of the folders there is a video effects and inside there you've got things like color correction
and items inside that like brightness and contrast.
Now if you've ever edited a photo Instagram or pretty much any other app a lot of these will look familiar
to you.
So you can just grab one of these effects and drag it over onto the clip on the timeline to apply the
clip and then you have to change the attributes however you want.
Now keep that in mind that's kind of tricky but when you want in fact you grab it and you throw it on
the clip that you want the effect to be applied to.
So it's click and drag brightness and contrast and put it right here on the video clip and there you
go.
Now it's applied.
If you go over to the effects one know we can now start making changes.
Change the brightness change the contrast do whatever we want grab the play head and shuttle back and
forth to see what it looks like.
We decided we don't like what we've done.
Well we can hit that reset button again or we can disable the effect by clicking the X button on the
left now eFax stands for special effects.
I don't actually know the F stands for but it is basically what it means like special effects.
I don't know where to apply or faxes to do them using what are called keyframes.
Now keyframes are specific points that you can set within a video clip to tell what the tell the editing
program when to start and stop applying certain effects.
For example let's say we want to start a video clip by having an all blurry and then a few seconds later
into the clip it clears up.
It's actually a pretty common way to start videos you see it on YouTube of what tax Boire that unblurred.
So it's sort of like this dreaming weird kind of effect that we're creating recreating the video to
come into focus.
So it really affects older and over the blur folder there is an effect called directional blur.
OK let's click and drag that onto the clip on the timeline.
Then over the properties windows or a fax windows we can see that it's in there.
Let's try the play head back to the beginning of the clip on the timeline then we'll go over to the
effects one now and next to the blur length part of the effect.
There's a little stopwatch icon.
Now if we click on that you'll see it turns blue.
Now what that means is we just created a keyframe or a specific point in the video where you want the
effect to again.
Now the result is called a key frame.
Is that your timeline is split up into frames every second depending on how actually how you recorded
it.
And depending on the settings you set up your pet project.
And usually it's 24 frames per second.
So if you make a frame a key frame that just basically means that the program now knows that in this
frame and the 23rd seconds or whatever something happens right and then you let the computer know that.
Well this keyframe is associated with a blur or something like that so knows the start the blur at this
point.
If you're having trouble keyframes guys don't worry.
I mean honestly these are ones the ones that you're going to struggle with until you eventually clicks
and it works but unfortunately like all the software as you use these.
So let's click on that number next to the blue linked and let's make it like 20.
That's like super blurry.
So now let's drag the play hit five or six seconds into the video.
Go back to the special effects one now and now hit the reset button on the blurry length.
You'll see that the blur length is now set to zero.
Now drag that play head back and forth along the timeline and you'll see the effect in action going
from very blurry at the beginning to completely clear where we set that second keyframe.
Now the way that that worked was right we we said at the very beginning.
OK we want it to be blurry so he said a keyframe occurred and the keyframe told him that hey in this
frame make it all blurry and then we went to the end where we wanted to end it and then we hit reset
which basically sets a second keyframe but it's easy for us because we start and then just stop it.
So then the computer goes OK.
The effect has to last over this length.
All right so let me show you another feature that is what editing is all about.
And that's how to make cuts and edits is incredibly important to the right of the media.
Then on the bottom.
You'll see a vertical roll icons and right next to it.
The arrow is the one that's selected but you'll also see that there is a razor blade icon.
Can you guess what the razor blade does.
Well that's the razor tool which is what you're going to use to make slices or cuts within the video
and audio tracks.
I know they're just called slices in cuts or whatever.
But really just means that you're going to split these videos in half or just I don't know so let's
say five seconds and you want to change the video and play something else.
Well you have to cut it in five seconds and move the second portion of a clip somewhere else then take
the clip you want it and throw it in.
So it's Drog a couple of other video clips onto the timeline here.
Here's one OK.
Put another one on as well.
Now let's switch to the razor tool and start making some cuts.
Let's go.
Most of the way into the first clip and right about I don't know here we'll make a cut.
OK when we clicked there you'll see that the video audio clip after the cut has been highlighted.
If we switch to the pointer tool or the selection tool over here Bakra we had the razor icon and we
click on that part of the clip Well then there's a whole bunch of options.
But one of them is going to be called ripple delete.
Now if you want to just delete a clip what do you do you click it and you hit delete.
Now ripple delete is just a little bit different and it is a very common kind of tool that the editors
use.
But using a ripple delete it's going to delete the clip that's highlighted and then move everything
else after it back so that there's no gap in the timeline.
This is a great feature when you're trying to make edits quickly.
So if we hit Ripl delete here as opposed just regular Dooly.
Well the clip goes away and then the rest of the clip Smersh back against the first one.
Otherwise we just delete or just leave a big blank space and we have to grab all the other ones and
slide them over back into place.
Now right now obviously it doesn't look like a big problem but when you have lots of things on your
timeline it can be a painting because what ends up happening is they'll you'll leave a big gap and then
you try to scoot them but then winds up happening is you accidentally move them out of sequence or you
move them out of sync which you which you had established before the eclipse.
The next thing I want to show you here is how to apply a transition.
Now transition could be like a crossfade or a dissolve or a slide in slide out or some kind of way to
get from one shot to the next without just having it be simple.
It's now seen one updown seen too.
One way to apply a transition is right click on the timeline with what has been made or in between two
clips and a transition.
Now keep this in mind.
You have to have two clips of a transition if you want to transition inside of one clip all you have
to cut it and then apply the transition right at where the two blocks meet.
Otherwise the computer doesn't know what to transition from and then to.
So it really won't make sense.
So for première will probably use the cross as all.
And you'll see what this basically looks like crosses all of this means it takes one image and slowly
dissolves and as it dissolves in the second image starts bubbling up.
Now you can change any of the attributes on this like how long the transition lasts or when it begins
and ends.
If you want to change the transition that's there.
Well you can go over to video transitions in the folder on the right grab one that you like and drag
it over on top of the timeline.
For example what's grandis center split effect from a slide folder.
If we drive that over and then shuttle back and forth with the play head we'll see what the effect actually
looks like when you apply it to the clubs and the timeline.
OK pretty cool.
Now you can spend 20 minutes just playing with all the transitions they have to pick which ones you
like.
Personally I like to use subtle transitions.
There's a lot of ones on it that have a lot of motion like things that crash in and you know I don't
know what ends up happening is that just too cheesy.
And oftentimes if you use to make motions specific transitions then people can actually kind of get
seasick.
I don't know if you've seen videos of too many transitions.
Actually can kind of give you a headache.
So personally I like to stick to simple stuff unless for some reason having a more animated version
adds some value.
Anyway yeah I mean just keep it simple unless for some reason you think you know or the fancy one and
you write one more basic thing you should know about.
This is how to zoom in and out of your project and specifically on the timeline.
So there is a horizontal bar with a couple of circles along the bottom here.
You click and drag on the right one you'll see the magnification of the project increase and decrease
if you're into keyboard shortcuts you can also hit the plus and minus buttons on the upper right hand
corner of your keyboard to do the exact same thing.
OK once you've got your video edited and ready to go you want to export the video file.
So go up to the file menu and export and then select your media.
Now when you want to actually make a video you have to export it because right now it's in a goofy format
and there's no video player that can play it.
If you just go to save what that does it saves your project right and so premiere can open the project
and you go right back to editing like you would.
But if you export it takes all of your clips all of your layers and smoosh them together into one video
file.
That's generally what you use when you're going to upload this to YouTube or wherever you're sending
your media anyway is to go back to that.
And then the export and you select your media.
So it's going to bring up a window that shows you what the video will look like once it has been rendered
or basically what rendered means all the effects have been generated by the program.
The program is displaying clips but it's also creating its own effects and graphics and whatever.
And it takes time for it to actually go through and make all those graphics.
No I think it's helpful to double check and if necessary change the name of the file and the destination
where the file will be saved.
You can do this over on the right just by clicking the file name and sending the information about the
right directory in the right filename.
The other thing that might come in handy is if you're going to be publishing straight to a social media
platform of some kind like YouTube Facebook you can actually just go down to a published tab here and
log into your platform of choice and then enter any specific settings for this video.
So in that case when you export the video it'll just go directly to Facebook and post or directly to
Twitter and post it saves you time.
But I don't understand why people use this feature.
To be honest because I personally just export it and then check that everything came out right.
If you sent it directly to Facebook then you could have render air.
You could totally have forgotten to remove something at the end of your clip or something like that.
No turning back.
But if you really must save time you're constantly publishing really short stuff.
Do social media well then go for it anyway when you're ready hit export and the program will begin to
render the video.
Export it now can depending on your computer and the hardware specifications you have this could take
a really short time or a really long time.
The longer your video is the more effective you have in it all the longer it's just going to take to
render.
But once it's done Walla There you go you're good to go.
All right guys.
That's it for now.
Most of the editing programs out there are a lot like this.
Things might be found in different places but generally experience will be the same.
I encourage you to download a demo premier.
Any other editing program to give it a try for yourself.
They all have timelines.
They all have a fax.
You pretty much all put the effects on the timelines the same way you cut your clips on the timeline.
Pretty much the same way you stack your clips on top of each other in the same way you export and you
save and all that stuff pretty much the same way.
Keyframes work the same way as well but the buttons will be you know somewhere else and you guys.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.